# Commits

Writing good commit messages is hugely helpful, for all of us and for future you. In addition, it's helpful for:

* new (or recently-returned) developers who want to understand things quickly
* interested people from elsewhere in the organisation who want to follow along
* members of the public (to the extent possible, we code in the open) who want to see our work, or learn from our practices
* any future developers (including you!) who want to see _why_ a change was made

### Content

A good commit message briefly summarises the "what" for scanning purposes, but also includes the "why". If the "what" in the message isn't enough, the diff is there as a fallback. This isn't true for the "why" of a change - this can be much harder or impossible to reconstruct, but is usually the most important thing.

### Structure

Start commit messages with a one-line summary no longer than 50 characters. Various Git tools (including GitHub) use this as the commit summary. Format it like an email subject, with a leading capital and no full stop. Write it in the present tense.

For example:

> Add .dockerignore and tell git to ignore assets

Leave a blank line before the rest of the commit message.

#### Example

Taken from [Tim Pope’s guidelines](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html).

> Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary
>
> More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. In some contexts, the
> first line is treated as the subject of an email and the rest of the
> text as the body. The blank line separating the summary from the body
> is critical (unless you omit the body entirely); tools like rebase can
> get confused if you run the two together.
>
> Write your commit message in the present tense: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed
> bug." This convention matches up with commit messages generated by
> commands like git merge and git revert.
>
> Further paragraphs come after blank lines.
>
> * Bullet points are okay, too
> * Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a
>   single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here
> * Use a hanging indent

### Related guides

* [5 useful tips for a better commit message](http://robots.thoughtbot.com/5-useful-tips-for-a-better-commit-message)
* [Every line of code is always documented](http://mislav.uniqpath.com/2014/02/hidden-documentation/)
